1. baroreceptor; sensors located in the [[carotid sinus]] (at the bifurcation of common carotid artery into external and internal carotids) and in the aortic arch. They sense the [[blood pressure]] and relay the information to the [[brain]], so that a proper [[blood pressure]] can be maintained.
2. [[blood pressure]] → [[autonomic nervous system]]
	1. Short-lasting rises of [[blood pressure]] were produced by an occlusion of the thoracic aorta or by strong rapid injections of saline. These mechanically produced elevations of [[blood pressure]] were immediately followed by an arousal.
	   
	   If the [[blood pressure]] was raised over a period of one or two hours by vasopressin, a marked increase of the number and the total duration of wakefulness was observed.
	   
	   A fall in [[blood pressure]] was produced by stimulation of the peripheral stump of the vagus. If the stimulus was applied during relaxed wakefulness, EEG synchronisation with behavioral signs of sleep occurred simultaneously with the fall in [[blood pressure]].^[[The role of the baroreceptors and of blood pressure in the regulation of sleep and wakefulness | Experimental Brain Research (springer.com)](https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/BF00234467)]
	2. **interference:** baroreceptors affect [[circadian rhythm|sleep]] and [[arousal]] by relaying afferent signals. They sense and regulate the systemic [[blood pressure]] and variability therein, providing robust beat-to-beat negative feedback to the [[blood pressure]] and its variability that reduces short-term fluctuations in the arterial [[blood pressure]]. An increase in [[blood pressure]] mechanically stretches the baroreceptors, which enhances the glutamatergic afferent tone of the NTS. This increases parasympathetic outflow to cardiac and vaso- motor smooth muscles, and reduces sympathetic discharges. Conversely, a decrease in afferent arterial discharge leads to baroreceptor closure, leading to parasympathetic inhibition and sympathetic activation. This triggers reflexive increases in [[heart rate]], cardiac contractility, vascular resistance, and venous return.^[[[PDF] Autonomic Dysfunction in Sleep Disorders: From Neurobiological Basis to Potential Therapeutic Approaches | Semantic Scholar](https://www.semanticscholar.org/reader/f9d6a046ba7f1c5800768b8e4a0453774c18246f)]