1. block training → [[time]]
	1. you might be able [[time]] to save/keep [[time]] the same with block training e.g. increasing density without increasing [[time]] necessarily while still making [[progressive overload]]
		1. also useful when not necessarily wanting to increase intensity

# research
1. It’s a complex model but one that was clarified by research from Bent Ronnestad of Lillehammer University in 2012. Ronnestad took two groups of highly trained cyclists and, over a four-week programme, made the riders perform eight high- and low-intensity training sessions. However, they spread these out differently – the block group undertook five high-intensity sessions in week one followed by three weeks of one high-intensity session compared to the traditional periodisation group’s two high-intensity sessions per week. The study concluded that the block group exhibited a 4.6 per cent improvement in VO2 max, a 2.1 per cent quicker [[time]]-trial effort and a 10 per cent increase in power output over the subjects following the traditional periodisation model. In short, the more intense blocks of high-intensity training led to fitness gains that eclipsed those of the traditional model.^[The Science of the Tour de France: Training secrets of the world’s best cyclists, p. 9]
2. One group of cyclists performed block periodization, wherein the first week constituted five sessions of high-intensity aerobic training (HIT), followed by 3 weeks of one weekly HIT session and focus on low-intensity training (LIT) (BP; n = 10, VO2max = 62 ± 2 mL/kg/min). Another group of cyclists performed a more traditional organization, with 4 weeks of two weekly HIT sessions interspersed with LIT (TRAD; n = 9, VO2max = 63 ± 2 mL/kg/min). Similar volumes of both HIT and LIT was performed in the two groups.
   
   The present study suggests that block periodization of training provides superior adaptations to traditional organization during a 4-week [[endurance training]] period, despite similar training volume and intensity.^[[Block periodization of high-intensity aerobic intervals provides superior training effects in trained cyclists - PubMed (nih.gov)](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/22646668/)]
3. One group of cyclists performed block periodization (BP; n = 8), wherein every fourth week constituted five sessions of high-intensity aerobic training (HIT), followed by 3 weeks of one HIT session. Another group performed a more traditional organization (TRAD; n = 7), with 12 weeks of two weekly HIT sessions. The HIT was interspersed with low-intensity training (LIT) so that similar total volumes of both HIT and LIT were performed in the two groups.
   
   Mean effect size (ES) of the relative improvement in VO2max , power output at 2 mmol/L [la(-)], hemoglobin mass, and mean power output during 40-min all-out trial revealed moderate superior effects of BP compared with TRAD training (ES range was 0.62-1.12). The present study suggests that BP of [[endurance training]] has superior effects on several endurance and performance indices compared with TRAD.^[[Effects of 12 weeks of block periodization on performance and performance indices in well-trained cyclists - PubMed (nih.gov)](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/23134196/)]
4. Previous studies in endurance athletes have indicated that block periodization (BP) can be a good alternative to the more traditional organization of training despite the fact that the total volume and intensity of the training are similar. **However, these studies usually last only 4–12 wk. The aim of the present single-case study was to investigate the consequences of 58 wk** with systematic BP of low-intensity training (LIT), moderate-intensity training (MIT), and [[high-intensity interval training]] (HIT) including incorporation of heavy strength training.
   
   After the intervention the cyclist’s VO2max was 87 mL · kg−1 · min−1 , Wmax was 7.35 W/kg, and Power3la- was 4.9 W/kg. This single case indicates that the present training program can be a good alternative to the more traditional organization of long-term training of endurance athletes. However, a general recommendation cannot be given based on this single-case study^[[A Scientific Approach to Improve Physiological Capacity of an Elite Cyclist - PubMed (nih.gov)](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/28657821/)]