# [[unconditional positive regard]]
1. Its founder, Carl Rogers, writes:
   
   The central hypothesis of this approach can be briefly stated. It is that the individual has within him or her [[self]] vast resources for [[self]]-understanding, for altering her or his [[self-concept]], attitudes, and [[self]]-directed behaviour—and that these resources can be tapped if only a definable climate of facilitative psychological attitudes can be provided.^[https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Unconditional_positive_regard#cite_note-Rogers-Kutash-2]
2. [01-Carl Rogers on Empathy](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iMi7uY83z-U)

# quotes
1. “In my deepest contacts with individuals in [[therapy]], even those whose troubles are most disturbing, whose behavior has been most anti-social, whose feelings seem most abnormal, I find this to be true. When I can sensitively understand the feelings which they are expressing, when I am able to accept them as separate persons in their own right, then I find that they tend to move in certain directions. And what are these directions in which they tend to move? The words which I believe are most truly descriptive are words such as positive, constructive, moving toward [[self]]-actualization, growing toward maturity, growing toward socialization.”
2. “When the other person is hurting, confused, troubled, anxious, alienated, terrified; or when he or she is doubtful of [[self]]-worth, uncertain as to identity, then understanding is called for. The gentle and sensitive companionship of an empathic stance… provides illumination and healing. In such situations deep understanding is, I believe, the most precious gift one can give to another.”
3. “People are just as wonderful as sunsets if you let them be. When I look at a sunset, I don't find myself saying, "Soften the orange a bit on the right hand corner." I don't try to control a sunset. I watch with awe as it unfolds.” —Carl Rogers
4. “In my early professional years I was asking the question: How can I treat, or cure, or change this person? Now I would phrase the question in this way: How can I provide a relationship which this person may use for his own personal growth?”