1. Under this hypothesis, the balance between excitatory and inhibitory neural systems, or the E/I balance, should be tightly maintained within a permissible range for optimal [[brain]] functions. However, in ASD, the E/I imbalance hypothesis presumes this balance is disrupted.
   
   the E/I imbalance hypothesis suggested a bias toward excitation
   
   an excessive amount of excitation or reduction of inhibition, causes too much noise in [[information processing (psychology)|information processing]]. Several lines of evidence support the E/I imbalance hypothesis.
   
   Second, postmortem studies have shown a reduction in the inhibitory system (e.g. reductions in [[γ-aminobutyric acid]] (GABA)<sub>A</sub> and GABA<sub>B</sub> receptor density and reductions in the enzyme that converts [[glutamic acid]] to GABA). Alternatively, an increase in the excitatory system (e.g. increases in the [[messenger RNA|mRNA]] levels of genes including [[excitatory amino acid transporter 1]] and [[glutamate receptor]] of α-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionic acid ([[AMPA]])) has been shown in brains with ASD.^[[Are sleep disturbances a cause or consequence of autism spectrum disorder? - Yamada - 2023 - Psychiatry and Clinical Neurosciences - Wiley Online Library](https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/pcn.13550)]
2. E/I balance = Glx concentration divided by GABA concentration^[[Are sleep disturbances a cause or consequence of autism spectrum disorder? - Yamada - 2023 - Psychiatry and Clinical Neurosciences - Wiley Online Library](https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/pcn.13550)]
3. [[sleep]] → E/I balance
	1. A recent animal study showed that the E/I balance of synaptic activity changes across the 24-h day in a [[sleep]]-dependent manner. Inhibitory processing was upregulated during [[sleep]], while excitatory processing was downregulated during [[sleep]]. The result indicates that the E/I balance is not fixed but dynamically changes in a [[sleep]]-dependent manner. A human MRS study showed that [[sleep deprivation]] increased the concentration of Glx in the [[basal ganglia]] compared with that before sleep deprivation, whereas the concentration of GABA was unchanged.^[[Are sleep disturbances a cause or consequence of autism spectrum disorder? - Yamada - 2023 - Psychiatry and Clinical Neurosciences - Wiley Online Library](https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/pcn.13550)]