1. In [[psychology]], the word is usually reserved for the conscious subjective experience of [[emotion]].^[https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Feeling#cite_note-3]
2. feeling vs. [[emotion]]; constative vs. performative
	1. [[emotion]] → e-motion → movement (mnemonic)
	2. level 1
	slothrops_rocket
	6 points·2 years ago·edited 2 years ago
	
	An excerpt from philosopher's Byung-chul Han's book Psychopolitics presenting his anti-capitalist take on the problem:
	
	“Today, talk of feeling and [[emotion]] has grown inflationary. Many academic disciplines are researching [[emotion]]. All of a sudden, the [[human]] being no longer counts as an animal rationale; instead, man is a creature of sentiment. That said, hardly anyone bothers to ask where this sudden interest in emotions came from. Scientific [[emotion]]-researchers are clearly not reflecting much on their own activities. Thus, they have failed to remark that the emotional ‘boom’ stems from an economic process, above all. Worse still, utter conceptual confusion prevails. ‘[[emotion]]’, ‘feeling’ and ‘affect’ seem interchangeable for many researchers. Yet feeling and [[emotion]] are not identical. We speak, for instance, of a feeling for [[language]], athletics or other people – Sprachgefühl, Ballgefühl, Mitgefühl (respectively: linguistic aptitude, a knack for sports and compassion). One may ‘have a feel for [[language]]’ or ‘feel for others’, but no one has an ‘[[emotion]] for [[language]]’ or experiences ‘com-[[emotion]]’. There is no such thing as ‘[[language]]-affect’ or ‘com-affect’ either. Mourning is a feeling too. But it sounds strange to speak of an ‘affect of mourning’ or an ‘[[emotion]] of mourning’. Affect and [[emotion]] refer to strictly subjective matters, whereas feeling refers to something objective.

	“Feeling can be recounted. It has narrative length, or breadth. Neither affect nor [[emotion]] admits an account. The crisis of feelings that can be observed in contemporary theatre also represents a crisis of giving-account (Erzählung). Today, the narrative theatre of feelings is yielding to a clamorous theatre of affects. Because narrative is lacking, an affective mass gets piled onto the stage. But, in contrast to feeling, affect does not open up space. Instead, it steers a linear path in order to discharge, to unload itself. The digital medium is an affect-medium too. Digital [[communication]] fosters the immediate release of affect: catharsis (Affektabfuhr). Simply on the basis of its temporality, digital [[communication]] conveys affect more than it transmits feeling. Shitstorms are streams of affect. They represent exemplary phenomena of digital [[communication]].

	Feelings are constative. For instance, we say: ‘I have a feeling that.’ In contrast, it is impossible to say, ‘I have an affect (or an [[emotion]]) that.’ Emotions are not constative, but performative. They refer to actions and deeds. Furthermore, they are intentional and [[goal]]-oriented. Feelings, on the other hand, do not necessarily display an intentional structure. Often, the feeling of [[anxiety]] has no concrete object. Often, the feeling of [[anxiety]] has no concrete object. That is what makes [[anxiety]] different from fear, which has an intentional structure. Nor is a ‘feel’ – that is, a sense – for [[language]] intentional. Its non-intentionality is what distinguishes it from linguistic expression, which, because it ex-presses, is e-motive. A feeling of cosmic oneness – an oceanic sense of the world (ein kosmisches Mitgefühl, ein ozeanisches Welt-Gefühl) – that does not focus on anything or anyone in particular is also possible. Neither emotions nor affects achieve the dimensions that characterize feelings. Emotions and affects are expressions of subjectivity.

	Feelings also have a different temporality than emotions. They admit duration. Emotions prove significantly more fleeting and short-lived than feelings. Likewise, affect is often limited to a single moment. In contrast to feelings, emotions do not represent a state. The [[emotion]] does not stand. There is no [[emotion]] of rest. A feeling of calm is easy to conceive. In contrast, the expression ‘emotional state’ has a paradoxical ring. Emotions are dynamic, situative and performative. Emotional capitalism exploits precisely these qualities. Feelings, in contrast, cannot be readily exploited inasmuch as they have no performativity. Finally, affects are not performative so much as eruptive; they lack performative directionality.

	Atmosphere – or mood (Stimmung) – differs from both feeling and [[emotion]]. It possesses even more objectivity than feeling. Objectively, a space or room can harbour any given atmosphere. An atmosphere or mood expresses a way-it-is. In contrast, emotions derive from deviations from the way-it-is. For instance, a place may diffuse a friendly mood. This atmosphere is something wholly objective. But there is no such thing as a friendly [[emotion]] or a friendly affect. Atmosphere/mood is neither intentional nor performative. It is the element where one happens to find oneself (etwas, worin man sich befindet). It represents a state of being or state of [[mind]] (Befindlichkeit). As such, atmosphere is static and constellative – whereas [[emotion]] is dynamic and performative. Where distinguishes a state, a disposition; in contrast whither – a direction – defines [[emotion]]. Feeling, in turn, is a matter of wherefore: ‘why’.

	Eva Illouz’s Cold Intimacies: The Making of Emotional Capitalism offers no answer to the question of why it is that feelings experience a boom under conditions of capitalism, in particular. What is more, the book equates feelings and emotions without drawing any conceptual distinction at all. Nor is it very useful to locate the question of feelings under capitalism at its inaugural stages: ‘Weber’s Protestant ethic contains at its core a thesis about the role of emotions in economic action, for it is the [[anxiety]] provoked by an inscrutable divinity which is at the [[heart]] of the capitalist entrepreneur’s frantic activity.’1 It is mistaken to understand [[anxiety]] in terms of [[emotion]]. [[Anxiety]] is a feeling. Its corresponding temporality proves incompatible with affect. Affect is not a constant state. As such, it lacks the constancy that defines feeling. It is the constant feeling of [[anxiety]] that would entail frantic entrepreneurial activity. But what Weber analyses is the ascetic capitalism of accumulation, which obeys rational logic more than it follows emotional logic. Accordingly, capitalism of this sort does not feed into consumer capitalism, which derives its profits from emotions. Moreover, consumer capitalism operates through the selling and consumption of meanings and emotions. It is not use value but emotive or cultic value that plays a constitutive role in the economy of consumption."^[https://www.reddit.com/r/askphilosophy/comments/9n6zla/why_are_emotions_not_just_feelings/e7k7uqx?utm_source=share&utm_medium=web2x&context=3]
	
# [[psychotherapy]]
1. [[Dr. David McPhee]] on "Why do I get angry that my therapist stays calm and patient when I shut down and can't get a word out? Shouldn't I feel acknowledged and grateful?"^[https://qr.ae/pGok6c]
	1. since feelings are [[information]] and signals our body sends to us, and since we don’t have direct control over them, the way we have control over words and our actions, they have no moral weight
2. what could be a better question than "How did that feel?"
	1. "What feelings came up?"^[The Body Keeps the Score: [[Brain]], [[Mind]], and Body in the Healing of Trauma, p. 401] e.g. the other could have been angry and respond "That felt good" to the former question
3. negative feelings/emotions ([[coping]] with bad weather (analogy))
	1. e.g. putting on a rain jacket to cope with rain → e.g. Woebot

## [[self]]
1. how can being unaware of your needs and feelings cause negative feelings?
	1. e.g. your actions won't meet your needs^[Codependency For Dummies by Darlene Lancer, p. 161]
		1. e.g. by learning to communicate in the 'language' of your [[amygdala]]