1. [[physical exercise]] → gastric emptying + why
	1. [[physical exercise]] reduces rate of gastric emptying due to reduced [[blood]] flow to organs (shunting)^[Cutting-Edge Cycling, p. 257]
2. The gastric emptying of **[[water]] and other inert, non-caloric fluids** is described as following an extremely fast exponential curve with a mean half-[[time]] of approximately 10 minutes. This indicates that the volume of these fluids in the stomach decreases by half every 10 minutes under normal conditions^[GPT-4]^[https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/full/10.1111/j.1399-6576.2005.00781.x]
	1. The gastric emptying curve for **solids** is linear, with solid [[food]] starting to empty from the stomach approximately 1 hour after eating. Within 2 hours, about 50% of the solid [[food]] ingested has passed to the duodenum. The rate at which solids empty from the stomach is independent of the amount of [[food]] ingested but depends on the caloric density of the meal.

# 'training the gut'
1. is the gut trainable e.g. high-[[carbohydrate]] absorption?
	1. A substantial body of evidence suggests that the GI system is highly adaptable. [[Gastric emptying]] as well as stomach comfort can be “trained” and perceptions of fullness decreased; some studies have suggested that nutrient-specific increases in [[gastric emptying]] may occur. Evidence also shows that diet has an impact on the capacity of the intestine to absorb nutrients. Again, the adaptations that occur appear to be nutrient specific. For example, a high-[[carbohydrate]] diet will increase the density of [[sodium-dependent glucose cotransporter|sodium-dependent glucose cotransporters]] in the intestine as well as the activity of the transporter, allowing greater [[carbohydrate]] absorption and oxidation during exercise. It is also likely that, when such adaptations occur, the chances of developing GI distress are smaller.
	   
	   It is clear that “nutritional training” can improve [[gastric emptying]] and absorption and likely reduce the chances and/or severity of GI problems, thereby improving endurance performance as well as providing a better experience for the athlete. The gut is an important organ for endurance athletes and should be trained for the conditions in which it will be required to function.^[[Training the Gut for Athletes | Sports Medicine (springer.com)](https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s40279-017-0690-6)]
2. relatively high daily ingestion of fructose → gastric emptying of [[glucose]]
	1. one study showed that daily ingestion of fructose 120 g for 3 days accelerated gastric emptying of fructose but not of [[glucose]]^[[Short-term dietary supplementation with fructose accelerates gastric emptying of a fructose but not a glucose solution - ScienceDirect](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/abs/pii/S0899900714001579?via%3Dihub)]^[[Periodized Nutrition for Athletes | Sports Medicine (springer.com)](https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s40279-017-0694-2)]