for practical applications: [[nutrition periodization]]

1. [[glycogen]] threshold; a critical absolute level of [[glycogen]] depletion must be induced for significant activation of [[cell signaling|cell signalling]] pathways to occur on the proviso, of course, that the desired training workload and intensity can be completed without any maladaptations^[[Fuel for the Work Required: A Theoretical Framework for Carbohydrate Periodization and the Glycogen Threshold Hypothesis | Sports Medicine (springer.com)](https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s40279-018-0867-7#Sec8)]
2. it is noteworthy that such adaptations are likely regulated via CHO restriction as opposed to true fasted conditions. Indeed, **consuming approximately 20 g of whey [[protein]] before and during CHO-restricted training sessions** still permits mobilization of FFAs and activation of the AMPK signalling axis, while also improving net muscle [[protein]] balance.
   
   it should be noted that commencing exercise with **<200 mmol/kg dw is likely to impair training intensity** due to the lack of muscle substrate and impact on the contractile capacity of muscle cells via impaired [[calcium]] regulation
   
   using a **sleep-low** model similar to that used by Lane and colleagues, Marquet et al. observed that 1–3 weeks of sleep-low training in elite triathletes and cyclists **improves cycling efficiency** (3.1%), 20 km cycling [[time trial|time-trial performance]] (3.2%) and 10 km running performance (2.9%) compared with traditional train-high approaches
   
   **depending on the timing of CHO feeding in relation to the commencement of exercise** (e.g. >60 min before exercise versus <10 min before and/or during exercise), such differences in FFA availability may manifest from the beginning of exercise or not until after 30–40 min of exercise, respectively
   
   It is unlikely that **CHO restriction in combination with chronic high-[[fat]]** feeding is beneficial for training adaptations. Indeed, 1–5 days of high-[[fat]] feeding reduces the expression and activity of the pyruvate dehydrogenase (PDH) complex, ultimately impairing CHO oxidation and high-intensity performance. Furthermore, Burke et al. observed that exercise economy and performance were negatively impacted in elite race walkers following 3 weeks of a high-[[fat]] diet when compared with periodized and high CHO availability. Emerging data also suggest that high-[[fat]] feeding may impair [[muscle protein synthesis]], potentially via reduced activation of mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) and ribosomal [[protein]] S6 kinase (p70S6K) signalling.^[[Fuel for the Work Required: A Theoretical Framework for Carbohydrate Periodization and the Glycogen Threshold Hypothesis | Sports Medicine (springer.com)](https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s40279-018-0867-7)]
3. **reduced muscle [[glycogen]] stores induce greater [[skeletal muscle]] [[cell signaling]] when compared with “matched-work” exercise protocols** (i.e., completion of identical duration and intensity) undertaken with high [[glycogen]] stores (Bartlett et al. 2015)
   
   For example, AMPK<sup>Thr172M</sup> phosphorylation (Yeo et al. 2010; Lane et al. 2015), ACC<sup>Ser79</sup> phosphorylation (Bartlett et al. 2013), AMPK-*α*2 activity (Wojtaszewski et al. 2003), and the nuclear abundance of AMPK-*α*2 [[protein]] content (Steinberg et al. 2006) are all up-regulated to a greater extent when acute exercise is completed with reduced pre-exercise muscle [[glycogen]] stores, an effect likely mediated via the presence of a [[glycogen]]-binding domain on the *β*-subunit of the AMPK heterotrimer (McBride et al. 2009). Furthermore, exogenous CHO feeding during exercise attenuates AMPK activity only when muscle [[glycogen]] sparing has occurred (Akerstrom et al. 2006). The present data extend these findings as we show for the first [[time]] comparable [[cell signaling]] effects despite the completion of significantly less work completed. Indeed, although we observed no effects of exercise on AMPK-*α*1 activity (as reported by others, Fuji et al. 2000), we observed similar increases in AMPK-*α*2 activity and PGC-1*α* mRNA expression at comparable levels of absolute [[glycogen]], despite mean differences of 60 min less work completed in LOW + LEU versus HIGH conditions. Such data therefore support the “[[glycogen]] threshold” hypotheses (Philp et al. 2012) surmising that a critical absolute level of [[glycogen]] must be exceeded in order for significant AMPK signaling to occur during prolonged endurance exercise protocols.
   
   intuitively, **train-low sessions may be best left to those training sessions in which the intensity and duration of the session is not likely to be compromised by reduced CHO availability**, for example, steady-state type training sessions performed at intensities below the [[lactate threshold]].
   
   from a practical perspective, our data suggest that while there may be benefits of restricting CHO intake in the post-exercise period in terms of enhancing mitochondrial signaling, it is also **necessary to consume sufficient CHO intake in the immediate post-exercise period** so as to replenish muscle [[glycogen]] to sufficient levels per se and/or obtain upstream signaling effects associated with feeding, the result of which could maintain the activity of those signaling proteins with putative roles in regulating MPS and [[skeletal muscle]] remodeling^[[Fuel for the work required: a practical approach to amalgamating train‐low paradigms for endurance athletes - Impey - 2016 - Physiological Reports - Wiley Online Library](https://physoc.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/full/10.14814/phy2.12803)]
   examination of available train-low studies (see Table 1) demonstrates that adaptations associated with CHO restriction are particularly evident when absolute pre-exercise muscle [[glycogen]] concentrations are ≤ 300 mmol/kg dw. However, restoring post-exercise [[glycogen]] levels to **>500 mmol/kg dw attenuates exercise-induced changes in [[gene expression]]**, and keeping [[glycogen]] (and [[energy]]) at critically low post-exercise levels (i.e. < 100 mmol/kg dw) may reduce the regulation of [[protein biosynthesis|protein synthesis]] pathways^[[Fuel for the Work Required: A Theoretical Framework for Carbohydrate Periodization and the Glycogen Threshold Hypothesis | Sports Medicine (springer.com)](https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s40279-018-0867-7)]
   Exercise increased (_P_ < .05) transcription and/or mRNA content of the pyruvate dehydrogenase kinase 4, [[uncoupling protein]] 3, lipoprotein lipase, carnitine palmitoyltransferase I, hexokinase II, peroxisome proliferator activated receptor _γ_ coactivator-1_α_, and peroxisome proliferator activated receptor _α_. Providing HC during recovery reversed the activation of pyruvate dehydrogenase kinase 4, [[uncoupling protein]] 3, lipoprotein lipase, and carnitine palmitoyltransferase I within 5 to 8 hours after exercise, whereas providing LC during recovery elicited a sustained/enhanced increase in activation of these genes through 8 to 24 hours of recovery.^[[Substrate availability and transcriptional regulation of metabolic genes in human skeletal muscle during recovery from exercise - Metabolism - Clinical and Experimental (metabolismjournal.com)](https://www.metabolismjournal.com/article/S0026-0495(05)00131-9/abstract)]
4. cycling vs. running → [[glycogen]] threshold
	1. any potential [[glycogen]] threshold is also likely to be training-status-specific and heavily dependent on the characteristics of the exercise modality in question, e.g. a **lower absolute threshold may be present for a metabolically based [[sport]] such as cycling** (non-weight-bearing activity with a lower eccentric load), whereas a higher threshold may be present in running, given that weight bearing, eccentric contractions and higher neuromuscular loads are present

# related
1. [[nutrition periodization]]