1. Blackwell did a year of postdoctoral research as a fellow at the Institute for Advanced Study in 1941 after receiving a Rosenwald Fellowship. There he met John von Neumann, who asked Blackwell to discuss his Ph.D. thesis with him. Blackwell, who believed that von Neumann was just being polite and not genuinely interested in his work, did not approach him until von Neumann himself asked him again a few months later. According to Blackwell,
   
   **“He (von Neumann) listened to me talk about this rather obscure subject and in ten minutes he knew more about it than I did.”**
2. Von Neumann entered the Lutheran Fasori Evangélikus Gimnázium in 1911. This was one of the best schools in Budapest, part of a brilliant education system designed for the elite. Under the Hungarian system, children received all their education at the one gymnasium. Despite being run by the Lutheran Church, the majority of its pupils were Jewish. The school system produced a generation noted for intellectual achievement. Wigner was a year ahead of von Neumann at the Lutheran School. When asked why the Hungary of his generation had produced so many geniuses, Wigner, who won the Nobel Prize in [[Physics]] in 1963, replied that: **von Neumann was the only genius**.”
3. John von Neumann and **John Nash**
	1. Von Neumann was sitting at an enormous desk, looking more like a prosperous bank president than an academic in his expensive three-piece suit, silk tie, and jaunty pocket handkerchief. He had the preoccupied air of a busy executive. At the time, he was holding a dozen consultancies, “arguing the ear off Robert Oppenheimer” over the development of the H-bomb, and overseeing the construction and programming of two prototype computers. He gestured Nash to sit down. He knew who Nash was, of course, but seemed a bit puzzled by his visit.

		He listened carefully, with his head cocked slightly to one side and his fingers tapping. Nash started to describe the proof he had in [[mind]]… But before he had gotten out more than a few disjointed sentences, von Neumann interrupted, jumped ahead to the as yet unstated conclusion of Nash’s argument, and said abruptly, “That’s trivial, you know. That’s just a fixed point theorem.”^[https://mattbaker.blog/2015/05/26/john-nash-and-the-theory-of-games/]
2. One German professor praised the habit of asking Ph.D. students “unsolvable questions” at their oral exams.
   
   If the student instantly said,“That’s unsolvable,” he was deemed to have the right sharp set of mind.
   
   The professor put his favorite unsolvable equations on the blackboard as an illustration. Johnny muttered at the ceiling for a few minutes, and then solved some of them.
3. In the rest of Johnny’s education Ratz was every bit as good as his word. Johnny learned his Latin and his Greek and his history in the gymnasium classroom along with his fellows. Ratz went so far as to insist that Johnny scrupulously attend the courses in mathematics provided in the gymnasium curriculum, and Johnny dutifully put aside the work with which he was engaged at the university to direct his attention to beginner’s algebra and the like. William Fellner, one of his schoolmates, recalled with admiration that Johnny not only clearly enjoyed those classes but also was in his own fashion working to learn from them, although what he was learning was not what the courses were designed to teach. **He had understood that already, before the age of ten**.
4. It's difficult to overstate the sheer intelligence of Von Neumann. He was unfathomably intelligent. **I work in a university**. There are a lot of smart people here. None of them are anything close to Von Neumann.
5. Von Neumann was the subject of many dotty **professor** stories. He supposedly had the habit of simply writing answers to homework assignments on the board (the method of solution being, of course, obvious). One time one of his students tried to get more helpful information by asking if there was another way to solve the problem. Von Neumann looked blank for a moment, thought, and then answered, “Yes.”
6. ...People today have a hard time to imagine how brilliant von Neumann was. If you talked to him, after three words, he took over. He understood in an instant what the problem was and had ideas. Everybody wanted to talk to him.
7. For a man to whom complicated [[mathematics]] presented no difficulty, he could explain his conclusions to the uninitiated with amazing lucidity. After a talk with him one always came away with a feeling that the problem was really simple and transparent.

# [[personality]]
1. John von Neumann was a quick speaker^[https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/John_von_Neumann#Personality]

# negatives
1. how was John von Neumann with topics he was less prepared for?
	1. Another factor was that he did not find it easy to discuss a topic formally in writing to others unless it was already mature in his [[mind]]. If it was, he could talk freely and without hesitation, but if it was not, he would, in his own words, "develop the worst traits of pedantism and inefficiency".^[https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/John_von_Neumann#cite_note-FOOTNOTER%C3%A9deiSt%C3%B6ltzner2001168-439]