# [[fat]]
1. **minimum daily [[fat]] intake for supporting [[sex hormone]] levels**
   
   I’ve written about this topic previously in MASS, so I’ll only hit the highlights and summarize the literature in this article. Back in 2021, Whittaker and colleagues conducted a meta-analysis exploring the relationship between dietary [[fat]] intake and [[testosterone]] levels in [[men]] ([10](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33741447/)). They assessed short-term (2-10 weeks) interventions comparing low-[[fat]] diets (~19% of [[energy]] intake on average) to higher-[[fat]] comparator diets (~39% of [[energy]] intake on average) with similar total [[energy]] content in healthy, approximately weight-stable participants. They ended up including six studies with 206 total participants, and the analysis revealed that low-[[fat]] diets induced statistically significant reductions in total [[testosterone]], free [[testosterone]], dihydrotestosterone (DHT), and urinary [[testosterone]], with non-significant reductions observed for luteinizing [[hormone]] and [[sex hormone]] binding globulin. Similar effects have been observed for [[estrogen]] levels in [[women]]; a meta-analysis from 1999 ([11](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/10088623/)) reported that changing from a high-[[fat]] (29-46% of [[energy]]) to a low-[[fat]] (12-25% [[energy]]) diet reduced [[estrogen]] levels, with particularly large drops observed when [[fat]] was dropped below roughly 20% of total [[energy]] intake.
   
   Second, it’s probably not ideal to frame [[fat]] intake as a percentage of total [[energy]] intake, as a super-low-calorie diet wouldn’t be expected to reduce the [[fat]] intake needed to support circulating [[sex hormone]] concentrations. If we assume a caloric intake of 2000-2500 kcal/day, the 20% of [[energy]] figure would lead us to a lower [[fat]] intake boundary of about 45-55 grams per day. To account for uncertainty, imprecision, and inter-individual differences, I personally would expand this range to around 40-60 grams per day. This range generally matches my observations as a coach and competitor, for what it’s worth.^[[How Much Dietary Fat Do We Really Need? (strongerbyscience.com)](https://www.strongerbyscience.com/dietary-fat/)]