1. palatability; the hedonic reward (i.e., pleasure) provided by foods or fluids that are agreeable to the "[[palate]]", which often varies relative to the homeostatic satisfaction of nutritional, [[water]], or energy needs.^[https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Palatability#cite_note-1]
2. The palatability of a [[food]] or fluid, unlike its flavor or taste, varies with the state of an individual: it is lower after consumption and higher when deprived. It has increasingly been appreciated that this can create a hunger that is independent of homeostatic needs.^[https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Palatability#cite_note-Lowe-2]
3. food digestibility → palatability
	1. easily digested food increases its palatability^[The Hungry Brain (Stephan J. Guyenet, Ph.D.), p. 65]. Misschien waarom e.g. wolkentoetjes een hogere palatability kunnen hebben.

# [[micronutrient]]
1. why haven't we evolved to seek out and find micronutrients (except e.g. salt) rewarding?
	1. There isn’t any refined [[food]] in a wild environment, and hunter-gatherers tend to have a fairly diverse diet, so it was probably difficult for them to meet their energy needs without also meeting their need for all other essential nutrients. This is supported by the fact that existing and historical hunter-gatherer groups tend to have very low rates of vitamin and mineral deficiency. There may have been no need to evolve a system to seek vitamins and minerals because deficiencies weren’t a major threat to reproductive success, particularly when compared to the much higher risk of insufficient calories. Salt may be an exception. We’re probably wired to taste and enjoy it, like certain other animals, because it was a limiting nutrient in the wild. In contrast, we haven’t evolved the ability to taste and enjoy vitamins or most minerals.^[The Hungry Brain (Stephan J. Guyenet, Ph.D.), p. 360]