1. psychological egoism; the view that humans are always motivated by [[self]]-interest and selfishness, even in what seem to be acts of [[altruism]]^[https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Psychological_egoism]
2. altruistic vs. hedonism ([[evolution]])^[https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Psychological_egoism]
   
  As availability and energetic efficiency are taken to be equivalent for both mechanisms it follows that the more reliable mechanism will then be the more likely mechanism.
   
   Sober and Wilson argue that when evaluating the likelihood of a given trait to evolve, three factors must be considered: availability, reliability and energetic efficiency. The genes for a given trait must first be _available_ in the [[gene pool]] for selection. The trait must then _reliably_ produce an increase in fitness for the organism. The trait must also operate with _energetic efficiency_ to not limit the fitness of the organism. Sober and Wilson argue that there is neither reason to suppose that an altruistic mechanism should be any less available than a hedonistic one nor reason to suppose that the content of thoughts and desires (hedonistic vs. altruistic) should impact energetic efficiency.
   
   For the hedonistic mechanism to produce the behavior of caring for offspring, the parent must believe that the caring behavior will produce [[pleasure]] or avoidance of pain for the parent. Sober and Wilson argue that the belief also must be true and constantly reinforced, or it would not be likely enough to persist. If the belief fails then the behavior is not produced. The altruistic mechanism does not rely on belief; therefore, they argue that it would be less likely to fail than the alternative, i.e. more reliable.