# [[gastronomy]]
1. should you use varied salts (e.g. sea salt) during cooking + why
	1. If you're eating the salt directly, or eating [[food]] that has _just_ had salt sprinkled on it, then the shape of the crystals is going to make a difference. Sea salt crystals are typically flat and wide, a shape which dissolves quickly on the tongue providing a sharp spike of salty flavor. Regular table salt, on the other hand, is usually more cube-shaped. This helps it flow much better, but dissolves slowly and therefore won't taste as salty. **If you're tasting salt that's already been dissolved (such as by being put onto the food before/while cooking), it'll taste the same. The typical advice is to use kosher salt for salting [[meat]] before cooking (it sticks better, again because of the shape), regular table salt while cooking (cheapest), and save the gourmet salt for the table.**^[https://www.reddit.com/r/explainlikeimfive/comments/2c54g5/eli5_why_does_sea_salt_taste_saltier_than_regular/]
2. do varied salts tastes different + why
	1. Yes and no. All salt is the same chemical, although some salts, such as black salt, have some other natural ingredients on them. However, the size of the grain changes how it dissolves on your tongue and can therefore change the flavor. For instance with Maldon salt. Also the size of the grain changes how much salt is in a measurement. So if you're measuring by volume, always make the same recipe with the same type of salt. Lastly, iodized salt has an anti-caking agent and iodine added to it, which some people do not like the taste of.^[https://www.reddit.com/r/Cooking/comments/1djhcin/can_you_really_taste_the_difference_between/]