1. scotobiology; the study of [[biology]] as directly and specifically affected by darkness^[https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Scotobiology]
2. in many of these biological processes (e.g. operational control of the [[human]] [[immune system]]) the critical point is the length of the dark period rather than that of the light
   
   for example, "short-day" and "long-day" plants are, in fact, "long-night" and "short-night" respectively. That is to say, **plants do not measure the length of the light period, but of the dark period**.^[https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Scotobiology#cite_note-bidwell-2]
   
   One **consequence of artificial light pollution**^[https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Scotobiology#cite_note-rich-3] is that even brief periods of relatively bright light during the night may prevent plants or animals (including humans) from measuring the length of the dark period, and therefore from behaving in a normal or required manner. This is a critical aspect of scotobiology, and one of the major areas in the study of the responses of biological systems to darkness.
   
   In discussing scotobiology, it is important to remember that darkness (the absence of light) is seldom absolute. An important aspect of any scotobiological phenomenon is the level and quality (wavelength) of light that is below the threshold of detection for that phenomenon and in any specific [[organism]]. This important variable in scotobiological studies is not always properly noted or examined. There are substantial levels of natural light pollution at night, of which moonlight is usually the strongest. For example, **plants that rely on night length to program their behaviour have the capacity to ignore full moonlight during an otherwise dark night**. If this ability had not evolved, plants would not be able to respond to changing night-length for such behavioural programs as the initiation of flowering and the onset of dormancy. On the other hand, some [[animal]] behavioural patterns are strongly responsive to moonlight. It is thus most important in any scotobiological study to determine the threshold level of light that may be required to interfere with or negate the normal pattern of dark-night activity.