1. I had this since day 1. It's ruined my speakers for listening to [[music]] for me. The virtual room I get with my customization is so wonderful with all its reflections I much prefer it. The image it "projects" is huge. It blows away two my my setups, an LS50 and R300 in another theater. For movies though, it's way too much reverb for a small room so my brain doesn't seem to like it. Similar to the people with Smyth A16's who get a Dolby Atmos theater done, take it to their homes and hate the reverb. The [[Headphones]] it comes with actually gives the best effect, but for comfort I'm glad they have the Fidelio X2HR on there too.^[https://audiosciencereview.com/forum/index.php?threads/creative-sxfi-amp-review-headphone-adapter.21636/post-718214]
2. Just so everyone knows - you’ll need to take photos of your ears and face with the SXFI app on your phone all over again to create a personalized Gen 4 SXFI profile - existing profiles won’t get updated. Profiles are helpfully labelled with the "Gen" number, so you can easily tell them apart.^[[Creative SXFI AMP Review (headphone adapter) | Page 8 | Audio Science Review (ASR) Forum](https://www.audiosciencereview.com/forum/index.php?threads/creative-sxfi-amp-review-headphone-adapter.21636/page-8)]

# gen 4
1. SXFI Gen 4 is out. Initial impressions: Quite a bit better. Flipping between my Gen 2, Gen 3 and Gen 4 profiles, there's better frequency response, better separation and instrument positioning, more laid back and natural sounding. And this is just 2-channel stereo [[music]] I'm talking about. Have to listen some more, but thumbs up so far.^[[Creative SXFI AMP Review (headphone adapter) | Page 8 | Audio Science Review (ASR) Forum](https://www.audiosciencereview.com/forum/index.php?threads/creative-sxfi-amp-review-headphone-adapter.21636/page-8)]
2. - Doesn't sound as shouty (as Gen 3) with Harman-Target tuned headphones
- In the SXFI app there is a toggle to use personalized or general head mapping; With Gen 3 my personal profiles had some shout / weirdness in 4 kHz range and the "non-personalized" sounded more agreeable . With Gen 4, personalized and non-personalized sound very close.
- It's nice with electronic music, when a change of already artificial timbre is not bothersome, but all the little clicks are brought more forward and "lifelike". More like you'd hear from near-field speakers.
- I'm not sure if it's better in games. I have to compare more.