1. how many calories does gaming burn?
	1. 46.18 kcal/kg/day  when gaming 4.09 hours per day
	   
	   The main result of this study was that compared with sitting and not participating in eSports, eSports players spent significantly more [[energy]] while playing games. eSports players, who are considered to be physically inactive because they are typically sitting, spend approximately 40% more [[energy]] than sitting without gaming, even at the amateur level. In addition, respiratory frequencies increase significantly while playing eSports (nearly 32%).
	   
	   In the study of Ainsworth et al., physical activity below 3 METs is considered light. In this study, because the average MET value of amateur eSport players was found to be 1.9, it can be considered light physical activity. However, it was observed that it causes approximately 2 times more [[energy]] expenditure than activities such as sitting, listening to [[music]] or watching movies while sitting, which was also noted by Ainsworth et al. In addition, it shows similar [[energy]] expenditure as walking slower than 2 mph or doing garden work with light effort. According to the MET value calculation with the data obtained in this study, an athlete who plays eSports for 4 h/day every day of the week will have performed 3192 MET/w physical activity by playing eSports only from his or her seat (1.9 METs × 240 min × 7 days = 3192 MET min/week).
	   
	   The high correlation between the [[energy]] expenditure of the athletes and the average daily playing [[time]] and APM values can be interpreted as that the athletes will spend more [[energy]] in prize money tournaments or if they are elite-level athletes. Considering that every movement involved in APMs is a thought action in the [[brain]] allowing for the transmission and activations that enable the body to act, we suggest that many mental and physical activities performed within a minute are the reason for the increase in [[energy]] expenditure. In this study, there is an average of 120 APM athlete activations during a game. Some sources report that professional eSports players reach up to 600 APM. The high degree of correlation between APMs and the increase in [[energy]] expenditure shown in our study suggest that professional players playing with high APMs levels may have much higher [[energy]] expenditure.^[[Are eSports more than just sitting? A study comparing energy expenditure (becarispublishing.com)](https://becarispublishing.com/doi/10.2217/cer-2021-0223)]